


I know the title sounds like an oxymoron but trust me it makes sense once you wrap your head around it all. In the past I use to keep one truly power machine typically a high end laptop that was my travel anywhere computer that double as a desktop however all that changed after I ditched Apple and Microsoft. For years I was a die hard Mac user but then Apple started changing instead of creating truly amazing high end machines they became focused with making everything feel like an iPhone. After watching Mac OS formerly OS X decay into its current state today I grew exhausted with using it. At this point I decided to switch back to Windows which had been great but then Windows 11 came and Microsoft really wanted to shove in Accounts, AI, and Ads which left a bad taste in my mouth. Take all those massive changes and add in the bugs sometimes performance regressions or just down right bad installs due to the Windows Update now being required on start up. When Gamers Nexus has to make a video showing how much Windows 11 installs can differ on a fresh install on the same machine we have a problem. Since I was a teenage my hobby has been Linux mostly due to a CNET video of try a free operating system. Back then it was Ubuntu 4.10 Warty Warthog which felt amazing but lacked a lot of wanted as a teenager mostly gaming. Fast forward to 2025 and Linux has never been better mostly due to Valve creating Proton. I also can't forget to mention the release of the Steam Deck which I think really pushed Proton to developers. This completed the Linux Desktop for many users productivity had always been a strong suite but now with gaming being easier than before minus some online titles requiring anticheat. This really made Linux feel like it could replace Windows for a lot of people myself included. While I have always used it in some capcitiy making it my primary OS was always something I became wary of due to my hobby of gaming being a lot of what I do outside of work. The golden rule for me at least is if I can do 99% of what I want to do without hassle then the extra 1% I can deal with it some hassle. 

As for Linux a lot has changed since the teenage years aside form the gaming becoming better. Over the years like most users I began Distro hopping from Ubuntu to Manjaro then to Fedora. Honestly I probably would have stopped at Fedora if CachyOS had stated where they were at launch. When CachyOS first hit the market it was a little rough around the edges for me personally. The lack of AUR support and flatpaks was a major deal breaker for me. I wasn't even really into Arch at the time but the AUR is like Copr on Fedora so having it not be usable was a huge red flag. The lack of flatpak support was also an issue as some apps are only available via flatpaks. Thankfully AUR support via paru came in 2024 and flatpaks were added in 2025 really completing the Arch based Distro. Now I would say CachyOS feelks like Manjaro was always meant to be a more friendly version of Arch. I'm not saying Arch is difficult especially since you can now just Arch install and be done for the most part however I don't want to do that most of the time and really its all about the config after setup. On CachyOS I would say about a good 30 minutes downloading packages settings up extra storage and what maps where. Once all that is setup its mostly just maintaining the system. Vanilla Arch on the other hand I feel like take a good 2 to 4 hours for a setup to really be complete especially if you need drivers or power profiles. Past the intial setup which might break from time to time depending on packages. I think the maintain phase is slightly better on CachyOS as you can do the daily updates for small packages without worry of something breaking. 

All of that was to explain where I am at now with all three of my personal machines running CachyOS. Disclaimer I do have a third laptop a work issued Dell that runs Windows this is soley a work machine and they mandate that all devices on network must be Windows. Without that out of the way I rock a dual laptop and one desktop setup mostly due to some insane deals on Facebook Marketplace. I think we should start out with the main system my custom desktop. The specs are Ryzen 7 9800 X3D, MSI X870e-p Pro Wifi, PowerColor Reaper 9070 XT, 32GB DDR5, 2TB NVME, 4TB NVME, Lian Li Edge Gold 1200w, Montech K95 Pro and Montech Hyperflow 360. The peripherals are two Gigabyte 32 inch 165HZ monnitors, Redragon anime edition K 686 Pro mouse, Redragon anime edition M916, Scarlett Solo Gen 4, and Mackie CR3 monitors. This is where I spend most of my time it can handle everything I need to do with ease and gaming on it is a blast even though I tend to spend most of time in JRPGs as of late. I do have two personal laptops as stated some really good Facebook Marketplace deals are to blame and being a nerd with a passion for mobile hardware. The first laptop the one I would say I use most often is a Thinkpad E14 Gen 5 with an Intel i5 1335u, 16GB DDR4 (8GB soldered), and 512GB NVME. This is a pretty stock machine with only small RAM increase for multitasking. The Thinkpad is mostly my carry everywhere and write machine due to its size and form factor. I wont say the E series is the best in any one area as the screen is dull battery life could be a bit better but for a ultility machine its more than fine the fact I only paid $130 also helps. My second laptop is  Lenovo LOQ 15AIX9 with an Intel i5 12600HX, RTX 2050, 12GB RAM, 512GB NVME, and 2TB NVME. This was one of those deals where I was not sure if I was going to grab it or not the price was pretty good at $180 but lower end RTX graphics card and some blemishes on the lid kept me from wanting to really grab it. Ultimately seeing how this model list on ebay for roughly $500ish I figured it couldn't hurt as a mobile workstation for longer travels. It did not come with the 2TB NVME that was added bring the price close to $300 and I would say I am not done upgrading it yet. Most likely it will go to 32GB RAM and get a vinyl decal to cover the blemishes on the lid. I will still be under $400 total which given everything is still a pretty good deal. My goal for this machine was the time I was away from my desktop but still needed enough power to game or more processer intense tasks while traveling. A few years ago I had to travel to Texas for two weeks and figured my work laptop and a Switch would be more than enough this is before the Steam Deck was shipping. After the first week of sight seeing in the evenings we spent most of the second week just relaxing aside from grabbing dinner in the evening. The Switch was fine but it didn't hit all the needs I wanted I don't think a Steam Deck would have either but it would have offered a better experience and the ability to stream entertainment. 

This may all seem rather complex as its three systems all running Linux all having different hardware. However it just seems to flow rather nicely outside from the need to restart after some updates mostly due to everything feeling like it has a purpose. The desktop and LOQ laptop would be the main machines for most things as either of them can handle creating boot drives, coding, gaming, or really anything I toss at them. The Thinkpad has been regulated to my research and writing system which makes sense at least to me. I feel like whenever I see a Thinkpad my mind instantly goes to someone getting work done its the anti-Macbook to a lot of Windows and Linux users because they represent function over fashion. Thats not to say a Thinkpad isn't a good looking machine I find the E14 to be a rather great looking design with more than enough ports the dual USB A and dual Thunderbolt ports are a welcome addition given the similar profile the fact it has full size HDMI and Ethernet are just icing on the cake. In the future I may consider a P series Thinkpad or Framework 16 model for one singular laptop. For now though I like having the option to grab the work or gaming one it lets me focus in on the task at hand rather than getting distracted by one more level. 