As the year begins to wind down I have begun to reflect on the changes in my computing experience. I found myself no longer caring for Apple's ecosystem and done with the fatigue that came Microsoft's Windows. First the ecosystem Apple fans so love to tell everyone about honestly as someone who works in IT and spent more than I would ever want to admit on Apple products. Its not that magical, there was a point where Apple had the best features but now most are standard across everything even open source. I think the shift in Air pods quality and the constant feeling the Apple Watch was a bad purchase kept weighing on me. The changes made in the iPad also felt annoying I loved the first iPad Pro and even found the first M series iPad amazing. However theirs one big negative I find to the iPad Pro the 11 inch is great especially if you to play games but its a bit too small for anything else. The 12.9 inch is perfect for a laptop replacement but is just a bit to big to want play games on due to the weight. There is just no perfect size iPad anymore and honestly the base iPad is probably a better purchase for most people if you need a tablet. As for Windows faithful it set in as Microsoft kept adding in more features that felt meaningless. Windows 11 already felt bloated but since the launch it felt like every major year update came with some regression or bug that was critical. Pairing that with a wildly imperfect experience on handhelds it just brought to a point where I didn't want to see Windows. I was tired of vastly different experiences depending on rather the device was plugged in or on battery. Microsoft has announced a new handheld mode starting with the ROG Ally Xbox which looks to improve the experince for handheld users but is it too little too late. As far as desktop experinces go I would say Windows 11 is fine for most people. As a power user though I would describe the current experience annoying it has too many issues. After building my desktop I noticed the GPU was performing unexpectedly it seemed to be leaving performance on the table. After doing several uninstalls and registry edits I got fed up and just nuked the system. To my surprise reinstalling Windows it finely began performing correctly. I wasn't the only one noticing the install inconsistently as Gamers Nexus even made a video comparing several installs on the same system and recording the differences in performance. After dealing with all of this for the past few years I decided this year it was time to completely break free. It started with my phone I switched over to Android because it was time for a change. In the past I typically had two phones my personal and work phone. Most of the companies I worked for often gave Android phones usually a Samsung. When I was ready for an upgrade this time I went to the most non iphone I could get the Z Fold 7 by Samsung which has been great. As someone who finds a tablet hard to fit into personal computing life the phone just unfolding into a small tablet made much more sense. Honestly after using a folding phone as my daily drive I'm not sure I would want to go back. I did fall into Samsung's ecosystem some what due to carrier promotions Galaxy Watch and Galaxy Buds being on deep discounts made it no brainer not to pick up. While I do find myself which the Galaxy Buds had a slightly better fit out of the box easily fixed with foam tips over the rubber once included. The Galaxy Watch I wish it had better battery life personally I would like at least two days but it seems the day and half will have to do for now. 

On the computing side since the release of the Steam Deck which completely changed gaming on Linux forever. I know Valve has had Proton out longer than the Steam Deck but the fact developers since the release of the Steam Deck began targeting it means more game run on Linux than ever before.I remember being a teenager and downloading Ubuntu 4.10 Warty Warthog and being happy I could emulate some game or even get a few to run in Wine. Shifting to Linux back then was near impossible as a daily drive now though aside from a few key pieces of software not working or some online games its much easier. In the past I would typically recommend Fedora as the best distro for most people. For me personally I liked how it was very stable and often had some of the newest packages. That being said thought the distro I ended up on was one I didn't like when it launched CachyOS felt too much like Manjaro when I first discovered it. The installer seemed to crash out often and honestly their repo felt very light. There was also this feeling of them not wanting the user to interact with the AUR at least thats how it felt. However after checking in on it after a few years and updates CachyOS has greatly improved the addition of Flatpak support this year took it from being niche to full on main stream in my mind. It also made me appreciate Arch something Steam OS and Manjaro had not done. Steam OS is a good starting off point but lacks a lot of features I would want for a desktop operating system. I also found myself really enjoying KDE over Gnome as a desktop interface. I know Hyperland exists but its one configuration I don't want to deal with personally. CachyOS was so good I replaced my Thinkpad which had been running Fedora with it after than I was hooked. My main desktop which is where I do most of my gaming is also running CachyOS and so far it runs perfectly with identical or better performance than I had on Windows. The true test would be my gaming laptop which is budget friendly model by Lenovo but none the less gaming laptops and Linux can be tricky. Lenovo unlike most gaming laptops looking at you Asus leaves most of the settings in BIOS as opposed to just the soft center and offers little to none specalized keys that Linux won't detect. The model of LOQ I have is the 15IAX9 which has a great screen and feels more like Legion than a budget firendly model installing CachyOS even made the RTX 2050 feel like a little power house on JRPGS and older titles. I know two personal laptops seems a bit crazy but there is a reason the Thinkpad is a dedicated writing machine or more often than not a device used to create drives. The Thinkpad is the stable machine it doesn't do anything really crazy but I know it will always be there when needed. The LOQ on the other hand is usually where I spend my time if I want to be away from the desktop its a portable power house and can fill in as the main machine when traveling. Now the reason I have both of them is due to Facebook Marketplace deals at the right times. The Thinkpad I got when a college was in the middle of upgrading for $130 I couldn't pass it up even if it did need a little work mostly a cracked corner on the keyboard deck but a little epoxy and it has never had an issue. One day I will replace they lower casing but so far I haven't felt the need to as its one small corner. The LOQ was solely cause someone was wanting to get rid for $180 which was a great deal. The lid does have some blemishes and a simliar style blemish is on the lower part of the trackpad not deal breakers and something vinyl cover would easily hide. On the LOQ currently I'm about $300 in on it total after adding a 2TB NVME for more storage. I suspect when I am done I will be closer to $380 in total on it as I would like to add 32GBs of DDR5 RAM to really take advantage the full power. The LOQ currently is only in single channel mode with 12GBs of RAM and performs well but dual channel for a laptop can be a huge game changer. CachyOS was easy to replicate the same experience across all devices aside from the devices some changes exist due to hardware such as the Desktop being all AMD where as the Thinkpad is all Intel and the LOQ has both Intel and Nvidia. 

So far having left both Apple and Microsoft behind I can say I am happier I feel like little was lost much was gained though. I no longer feel like I needed to upgrade my machines cause Windows might issue a bad update or its using too much RAM. On the Apple side I just feel like it became buy too much to make better experience that Apple didn't provide. 
